libsel4vmmplatsupport/docs/libsel4vmmplatsupport_arm_vpci.md, before:

<!--
     Copyright 2020, Data61, CSIRO (ABN 41 687 119 230)

     SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0
-->

## Interface `vpci.h`

The libsel4vmmplatsupport vpci interface presents a Virtual PCI driver for ARM-based VM's.
Using the `vmm_pci_space_t` management interface, the vpci driver establishes the configuration
space in the guest VM. The driver also handles and processes all subsequent memory and ioport accesses to the
virtual pci device.

### Brief content:

**Functions**:

> [`vm_install_vpci(vm, io_port, pci)`](#function-vm_install_vpcivm-io_port-pci)

> [`fdt_generate_vpci_node(vm, pci, fdt, gic_phandle)`](#function-fdt_generate_vpci_nodevm-pci-fdt-gic_phandle)


## Functions

The interface `vpci.h` defines the following functions.

### Function `vm_install_vpci(vm, io_port, pci)`



**Parameters:**

- `vm {vm_t *}`: A handle to the VM
- `io_port {vmm_io_port_list_t *}`: IOPort library instance to emulate io accesses with
- `pci {vmm_pci_space_t }`: PCI library instance to emulate PCI device accesses with

**Returns:**

- 0 for success, -1 for error

Back to [interface description](#module-vpcih).

### Function `fdt_generate_vpci_node(vm, pci, fdt, gic_phandle)`

Generate a PCI device node for a given fdt. This taking into account
the virtual PCI device configuration space.

**Parameters:**

- `vm {vm_t *}`: A handle to the VM
- `PCI {vmm_pci_space_t *}`: library instance to generate fdt node
- `fdt {void *}`: FDT blob to append generated device node
- `gic_phandle {int}`: Phandle of IRQ controller to generate a correct interrupt map property

**Returns:**

- 0 for success, -1 for error

Back to [interface description](#module-vpcih).


Back to [top](#).

Commit message:

libsel4vmmplatsupport: fix PCI passthrough on ARM
BAR size resolution was emulated in two places, the fault handler and
the backend created with vmm_pci_create_passthrough_bar_emulation().
Move to vmm_pci_create_bar_emulation() on ARM VM as well, and remove
the former. This way there is no need for BAR hack in the fault handler
and the backend created with vmm_pci_create_passthrough() works now on
ARM.

Also fixes the write size of the PCI fault handler, as it was discarded
previously and fixed size of 32 bits was always used.

As a side effect, the cookies for FDT generation are not necessarily
the same type anymore. Therefore we cannot consult them for interrupt
pins and lines, but on ARM the supported devices are virtio ones only
and currently they all use the same pin and the same line. Let the VM
specify those as an intermediate solution.

Signed-off-by: Hannu Lyytinen <hannu.lyytinen@unikie.com>

libsel4vmmplatsupport/docs/libsel4vmmplatsupport_arm_vpci.md, after:

<!--
     Copyright 2020, Data61, CSIRO (ABN 41 687 119 230)

     SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0
-->

## Interface `vpci.h`

The libsel4vmmplatsupport vpci interface presents a Virtual PCI driver for ARM-based VM's.
Using the `vmm_pci_space_t` management interface, the vpci driver establishes the configuration
space in the guest VM. The driver also handles and processes all subsequent memory and ioport accesses to the
virtual pci device.

### Brief content:

**Functions**:

> [`vm_install_vpci(vm, io_port, pci)`](#function-vm_install_vpcivm-io_port-pci)

> [`fdt_generate_vpci_node(vm, pci, fdt, gic_phandle, interrupt_pin, interrupt_line)`](#function-fdt_generate_vpci_nodevm-pci-fdt-gic_phandle-interrupt_pin-interrupt_line)


## Functions

The interface `vpci.h` defines the following functions.

### Function `vm_install_vpci(vm, io_port, pci)`



**Parameters:**

- `vm {vm_t *}`: A handle to the VM
- `io_port {vmm_io_port_list_t *}`: IOPort library instance to emulate io accesses with
- `pci {vmm_pci_space_t }`: PCI library instance to emulate PCI device accesses with

**Returns:**

- 0 for success, -1 for error

Back to [interface description](#module-vpcih).

### Function `fdt_generate_vpci_node(vm, pci, fdt, gic_phandle, interrupt_pin, interrupt_line)`

Generate a PCI device node for a given fdt. This taking into account
the virtual PCI device configuration space. Note that currently both the same interrupt pin and
line are used for all the devices in the PCI bus. For virtio devices this suffices for now.

**Parameters:**

- `vm {vm_t *}`: A handle to the VM
- `PCI {vmm_pci_space_t *}`: library instance to generate fdt node
- `fdt {void *}`: FDT blob to append generated device node
- `gic_phandle {int}`: Phandle of IRQ controller to generate a correct interrupt map property
- `interrupt_pin {int}`: Interrupt pin used for all devices
- `interrupt_line {int}`: Interrupt line used for all devices

**Returns:**

- 0 for success, -1 for error

Back to [interface description](#module-vpcih).


Back to [top](#).
